hi everyone Andrew here I've been wanted
to make this video for a while now but a
few things happen I by the way there's a
cool interview that I did for Spanish
blog so you speak Spanish you'll find
the link down here that called seminar
comm it's really cool and it's a fun
interview they asked very strange
questions so check it out if you want to
and then I got the flu this weekend
and as a matter of fact my fingers still
feel like this big thick sausage is so
you know if I screw up don't be too
harsh and then also I got a few things
from these guys which they send me a
bunch of stuff to try out and as a
matter of fact I might do a review of
this amp later this week so check it out
later on on this channel but anyway this
video for today is about scales and
scaled is something that no matter your
level or what kind of style you play you
always have to kind of deal with scales
in the beginning because you have to
memorize a lot of them you learn how to
play them and increase your technique
your your coordination with them and all
this stuff and then when you get to a
more advanced level you still kind of
have to worry about them because they're
still pretty good for form enough I
don't usually play scales but warm up
exercises usually kind of evolve around
them and so there's a long as you're
playing that you might as well try to
figure out a way to make it to make them
you know useful so musically and so
here's the idea and this will kind of
screw up your head you think you know
the scales as a matter of fact we're
gonna do any C major in a very simple
position but you kind of figure out that
what you thought you know maybe you
don't know so well and I'm sure some of
you will kind of blow through this
exercise and it's real easy but for a
lot of you I think you'll find the
coordination to be quite complex so the
basic idea is that you bring the whole
scale
and once you play all the way up you go
back and you start from the next notes
so you play for example from C you go
all the way up the last note of the
position and then right away without
stopping you move back to the second
note right and so on and I have a closer
in a second until you get to the point
where you don't have any more notes left
and then you can do it backwards and the
difficult thing is that your brain is
probably used to practicing scales from
the low string to the highest or for
vice-versa but still in a very linear
way and then from there it kind of
breaks up when you improvise and you go
like you know all over the place but
there's nothing in between
so this would really make your brain
think a lot and what you see is that
when you start from different notes you
in a strange way you start playing
different scales because they will kind
of fit the pattern of that particular
string and you see it's hard to explain
them to do it so when you do it you see
the mistake you make and it's really
really useful because then it will free
you from from having to visualize
complete patterns on the fretboard so if
you're improvising or composing you
don't have to look at notes as part of a
pattern you can actually just play
through the notes and you're free of
using any string you want in free to use
any frets you want and any combination
of fingers you're not tied to the
pattern anymore
so it's very useful I've been doing this
I used to do it actually a few years ago
many years ago and it really was an
important step in to you know to free
myself from all the parent like
structures of scales okay so let me show
it to you from close up and we'll go
very slow so you can see the whole thing
so that's the exercise as I said is very
useful for breaking up your your
patterns of scale playing and you can
find it very useful when improvising
will really free you from from patterns
the thing is you have to apply this to
all the patterns you know and then I did
it in C major because I wanted to show
you that no matter how simple the scale
it can get very complicated when you
start messing around with with you know
with the patterns in your head but then
you can of course move into more complex
scales with a lot of sharps a lot of
flats and you can move two modes
harmonic minor melodic minors the mini
scales and so on you can do it with
anything and you see that it's it's
really useful alright so I see you next
week hopefully this week for our review
of exam the fat fee fee and if not next
week for a new video lesson alright